**3. Valuation and Hedging in Complete Markets**

   **3.1 Attainable Payoffs**
*   **Financial Instrument:** How a new financial instrument modifies the market model and the meaning of absence of arbitrage, with respect to a market including this new instrument.
*   **Restrictions on Prices:** That new instruments may induce stronger (or weaker) restrictions in the price of the different assets, and the possibility of uniquely determining its price in some specific scenarios.
*  **Discounted Financial Market:** That in this chapter we work with the discounted version of the assets, and the implications of having prices in terms of the reference asset.
*   **European Option/Payoff/Contingent Claim:** The definition of a payoff as an F_T measurable random variable, where its value is known at the final time T and which is typically positive.
*   **Interpretation of a Payoff (H):** That a payoff can be seen as a net value obtained at time T, and that a positivity requirement is typically assumed as a natural condition.
*   **Payoff Dependence on Full Information:** That, because the payoff is F_T measurable, it may depend on the whole information flow up to time T, but that the time of payoff is fixed.
*  **Equivalence of Time of Payment:** That, because all prices are discounted, the timing of the payment is not relevant from a financial point of view.
*  **Linearity and Payoff Streams:** How to analyze more general situations where a payment happens at every time step using a linearity argument.
* **American Type Payoff**: That this theory only concerns itself with European types of payoffs and not with American types where the owner has freedom on when to exercise the option.
*   **European Call Option:** A specific example of a payoff, where the net return is the maximum between 0 and the difference between a strike and the asset price at time T.
*  **Cash delivery**: The implicit restriction of the model to options that are paid in cash instead of the delivery of the asset.
*   **Physical Delivery:** How an option may also have a physical delivery, and the difference this makes for the analysis.
*   **Example of a Stable Asset Option:** How a payoff can be defined as an indicator function which depends on if the price stays between certain levels.
*   **Path-Dependent Payoffs:** That some options depend on the whole path of the price process up to time T.
*  **Payoffs that depend on more than assets prices:** How to construct payoffs that depends not only on the asset price but also other variables (e.g. in an insurance) which requires different Filtrations than the generated by the asset.
*   **Basic Question for Valuation:** The main goal of the chapter: how to assign a value to a payoff and how to hedge it, which leads to a no arbitrage condition.

  **3.2 Replicating Strategy**

*   **Artificial Product:** The main idea to price a payoff by building an artificial product that has the same behaviour.
*   **Construction of an Artificial Product:** The main idea is to use a self-financing strategy to replicate the behavior of the given payoff.
*   **Arbitrage in the extended market:** That if the strategy is equal to the payoff then there should be no arbitrage in a market that includes both the strategy and the option.
*   **Value of the Option:** That the value of the option should therefore be the cost of the replicating strategy.
*   **Admissibility of Replicating Strategy:** The importance of the admissibility constraint even in discrete time.
*   **Replicating Strategy:** That the definition of a payoff is attainable if we can find an admissible strategy that has the same value at time T.
*   **Arbitrage-Free Valuation of Attainable Payoffs:** The central theorem of this section, that shows that for an attainable payoff the price process is unique and given by the conditional expectation under a martingale measure.
*   **Role of EMM:** The fundamental role of the equivalent martingale measure to compute the price of an option.
*  **Replicating strategy and the value process:** The relation between a replicating strategy and its value process and how that determines the price of the option.
*   **Efficiency of the Theorem:** How the theorem shows that the price process can be computed by only finding an EMM.
*   **Limitations of the Theorem:** That the theorem does not tell us how to find a replicating strategy, but only the price.
*   **Check for Arbitrage-Free Models:** How to check if a model is arbitrage free by exhibiting or constructing an EMM.
*  **Conditional expectation is enough to value:** How the main achievement of the theorem is that we can get the price process without actually finding a replicating strategy.
*   **Limitations for Hedging Purposes:** That the theorem does not provide a replicating strategy and that a replicating strategy is sometimes essential.
*  **Questions Regarding Attainability:** The importance of understanding how to define when a payoff is attainable without actually building a replicating strategy.

   **3.3 Characterization of Attainable Payoffs**

*   **Attainability Condition:** The result that shows the equivalent conditions for a payoff to be attainable, as an alternative to find an explicit replicating strategy.
*   **Attainability and EMM:** The condition that relates the existence of a replicating strategy with the expectation of the payoff under the EMM.
*   **Optional Decomposition Theorem:** The theorem that is used to prove the main result of this section, and how it relies on non-negative prices.
*   **Convexity of the Set of EMMs:** That the set of EMMs is a convex set and how that is implied in the result.
*   **Constant Expectation under EMM:** That a payoff is attainable if and only if the expected value of the payoff is the same for every EMM.
*  **Equivalence of 1) and 2):** That an option is attainable if the supremum of expectations under EMM is finite and attained by one particular EMM.
*  **Equivalence of 2) and 3):** How this equivalence may fail in continuous time models if we have an unbounded payoff.
*  **Simple Valuation in Discrete Time:** How the valuation and hedging problem looks conceptually simple for markets with finite discrete time and trivial initial information.
*   **Steps to Determine Attainability:** The general step-by-step approach to value payoffs using all the developed theory up to this point.
*   **Non-attainable Payoffs:** The problem of valuing and hedging for non-attainable payoffs, where other approaches must be followed.
*   **Risk-Neutral Valuation:** The notion that this valuation method does not involve any risk preferences and that it only uses a martingale measure.
*  **Problems with the Risk-Neutral Valuation Approach**: The potential problems with the risk neutral valuation when the payoff is not attainable.
*  **EMM choice for non attainable payoffs:** That when the payoff is not attainable the EMM choice matters a lot and should be chosen carefully based on the case.
*   **Hedging for non attainable payoffs**: The fact that if the payoff is not attainable then it may not be possible to hedge it in a reasonably safe way.

  **3.4 Complete Markets**
*   **Complete Market Definition:** The definition of a market as being complete if every payoff is attainable, otherwise it is called incomplete.
*   **Valuation in Complete Markets:** That when a market is complete the valuation of a payoff is given by the expectation under any EMM, and that there is no arbitrage.
*   **Recognition of a Complete Market:** How to recognize if a market is complete or not, using the uniqueness of the EMMs.
*   **Second Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing:** The theorem that states that a market is complete if and only if the EMM is unique.
*   **Description of Complete Markets:** That existence of an EMM is equivalent to the absence of arbitrage and that uniqueness of the EMM is equivalent to the completeness of the model.
*   **Generalization to Infinite Time:** That similar statements are true for infinite time models but that they are more difficult to prove.
*   **Completeness and Information Flow:** That in discrete time the assumption of completeness is an assertion on how much information is available.
*   **Finite Information:** That a discrete market is only complete if the information flow is finite.
* **Restriction of Completeness:** That completeness is a very restrictive property, and that most real world models are not complete.
* **Incompleteness in the multinomial model**: That the multinomial model with more than 2 price jumps is incomplete because it has multiple equivalent martingale measures.
* **Incompleteness in a model with density**: That any model with a density is incomplete because it implies that F_T is infinite.

   **3.5 Example: The binomial model**

*  **Application of the developed theory**: How to apply all the developed theory to the binomial model.
*   **Binomial Model and Completeness:** How to see the binomial model is complete from the fact that it has a unique EMM.
*  **Discounted Price process:** The calculation of the price process for a general payoff using the unique EMM of the binomial model.
*   **Binomial Model and IID under EMM:** That, under the unique EMM, the returns are also IID, but with a different parameter.
*   **Undiscounted Payoffs:** How to compute the price process of the original prices and payoffs by taking the discounted prices and multiplying by the reference asset.
*  **Undiscounted Price Process** The main result of this part, which shows that the undiscounted price is also equivalent to a discounted one after a change in probabilities and parameters.
*   **Binomial Call Option Pricing Formula:** The detailed calculation of the price of a call option, which leads to the discrete version of the Black-Scholes formula.
*   **Change of Numeraire:** A technique that can be used to derive the price of the call option using a new numeraire.
*   **Dual Martingale Measure:** How to use the change of numeraire to create a new martingale measure.
*  **Use of Bayes formula to change numeraire**: How to use the Bayes formula to change the measure to the dual measure.
*  **Binomial structure of the dual measure:** How to relate the returns under the dual measure with the returns under the martingale measure.
*   **Simplified Pricing Formula:** That the obtained pricing formula is relatively simple and easily computed.
*  **Simplified recursions for the call option:** How the valuation can be performed recursively using the martingale property of the price process.
*   **Tree Structure of the Binomial Model:** That the binomial model has the structure of a binary tree and the valuation is a step back in this tree.
* **Terminal condition for the Recursion:** That the values at the terminal nodes are given by the values of the payoff.
*  **Replicating strategy calculation**: That the replicating strategy can also be calculated from the information of the tree using a backward induction process.
*  **Simplified form of the strategy for path independent options:** That the formulas to calculate the strategy can be simplified in the case where the option is path independent.
*  **Tree computations for path-independent options:** That for the case of path independent options, the computations can be simplified to a recombining tree instead of the whole tree.
