   **4.1 Definition and first properties**
*   **Continuous-Time Analog of Binomial Model:** How the Black-Scholes model with geometric Brownian motion is the continuous time counterpart of the Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial model.
*   **Brownian Motion:**  The stochastic process that drives the Black-Scholes model and that is widely used in different areas.
*   **Brownian Motion as a Dynamic Normal Distribution:** The intuitive idea that Brownian motion can be viewed as a version of the normal distribution that evolves over time.
*   **Probability Space (Ω, F, P):** The underlying sample space for the Brownian motion, that is assumed to be big enough to represent all the possible paths of the process.
*   **Continuous-Time Filtration (IF = (Ft)):** The increasing family of σ-fields representing the flow of information over time.
*   **Time Parameter for Brownian Motion:** That time can be either bounded in [0, T] or not bounded in [0, ∞).
*   **Definition of F∞:** The way to define the σ-field of all possible events in the non-bounded case.
*   **Usual Conditions for the Filtration:** The technical requirements of right-continuity and P-completeness for the filtration, needed for the proofs.
*   **Brownian Motion Definition:** The key definition of a Brownian motion, as a real-valued process that starts at 0, is adapted and which satisfies two properties:
*   **(BM1): Independent and Normal Increments:** The fact that the increments are independent of the past, and are normally distributed with mean 0 and a variance related to the time step.
*   **(BM2): Continuous Trajectories:** The property that almost all the paths of the process must be continuous.
*   **Existence of Brownian Motion:** The reminder that the existence of Brownian motion is a non trivial mathematical result.
*   **Historical References:** The historical background about the development of Brownian motion by Wiener, Bachelier and Einstein.
*   **Brownian Motion in IRm:** The generalization of the Brownian motion to multiple dimensions, and that each dimension is an independent Brownian motion.
*   **Definition of BM without filtration:** The equivalent definition of a Brownian motion that can also be used without requiring a filtration.
*  **Independent Stationary increments:** The equivalent property that substitutes the independent increment with normal distribution, which is used to define Brownian motion without a filtration.
*   **Equivalence of Definitions:** That both the definition with a filtration and the definition with independent stationary increments are equivalent under the right conditions.
*   **Filtration Generated by Brownian Motion (IFW):** The filtration generated by the Brownian motion itself, that makes the process adapted.
*   **Transformations that produce new BM:** That given a Brownian motion, we can create several other Brownian motions via transformations that will be useful later.
*   **Proposition 1.1:** That a Brownian Motion can be created by taking the opposite (-W), by restarting at a given time (W(t+T)-WT), by scaling in space and time (cW), by time-reversing in [0,T] (WT-t-WT) or by a transformation between small and large times (tW(1/t)).
* **Definition of the new Brownian Motions:** How each transformation changes the stochastic process and can be shown to still be a Brownian Motion.

   **4.2 Trajectories of Brownian Motion**
*   **Law of Large Numbers:** That the Brownian motion grows slower than linearly, meaning that its path cannot be too far from 0 at very high times.
*   **Global Law of the Iterated Logarithm (LIL):**  That the Brownian motion fluctuates around the 0 axis with a certain specific form with the time, and an associated limit inferior and superior.
* **LIL Formalization:** That the trajectories oscillate very tightly around 0 given the exact bounds found in LIL.
*   **Local Law of the Iterated Logarithm (LIL):** That, given a certain level, the Brownian motion oscillates tightly around that level in the future with the specific form that relates the oscillations and the elapsed time.
*   **Consequences of Local and Global LIL:** That BM crosses the level 0 an infinite number of times, and even more than that, it crosses infinitely many times in any arbitrarily small amount of time.
*   **Differentiability of Brownian Motion:** That Brownian motion is continuous but almost surely not differentiable anywhere.
* **Quadratic Variation of Brownian Motion**: The key property that explains the strong activity and the wild behavior of BM, and that implies that trajectories can not be described as differentiable.
*  **Intuition for quadratic variation**: That a BM behaves like infinitesimal increments of +-sqrt(dt).
*   **Partition of an Interval:**  The definition of a set of time points with a certain increasing order.
*   **Mesh Size of a Partition:** The maximum size of the interval between consecutive times of a given partition.
*   **P-variation of a Function along a Partition:** The sum of the increments raised to a power p.
*   **P-variation of a Function:** The definition of the p-variation as the supremum of the p-variation along all possible partitions.
*   **P-variation along a sequence of partitions:** The definition of the p-variation along a specific sequence of partitions.
*   **Finite Variation:** That a function has finite variation if its 1-variation is finite for every time interval.
*   **Relation between finite arc length and finite variation:** That if a function has a finite arc length it has a finite variation and vice-versa, using the root inequality.
*  **Monotonic Functions and Finite Variation:** That any monotonic function has finite variation because the sum of the increments is a telescoping sum.
*  **Functions of finite variations:** The characterization that any function of finite variation can be written as the difference of two increasing functions.
*  **Definition of Q_n:** How to define the sum of the squared increments of the Brownian Motion along a partition.
*  **Heuristic for the quadratic variation of BM:** How the formal intuition implies that the value of Q_n should tend to T.
*   **Quadratic Variation of Brownian Motion:** That the quadratic variation of a Brownian motion is equal to the elapsed time and its relation with the law of the iterated logarithm.
*   **Notation (W)t:** How to note the quadratic variation of a Brownian motion along [0,t], and that it is equal to t.
*   **Quadratic Variation for almost all trajectories:** The statement that this is true almost surely for every trajectory.
*   **Infinite Variation of Continuous Functions:** How it can be proved that continuous functions with non-zero quadratic variation must have infinite variation.
*  **Relation Between P variations:** If a function has a finite p-variation then it has also finite q-variation for q > p, and if it has a finite p-variation it has an infinite q-variation for p < q.
*   **Non differentiability of finite variation function:** That functions of finite variation are almost everywhere differentiable according to Lebesgue.
*   **Infinite Variation of Brownian Paths:** That Brownian Motion trajectories must therefore have infinite variation.
*   **Quadratic Variation Quantified:** That the quadratic variation result of Theorem 1.4 quantifies the infinite variation.
*  **Limitation of the infinite variation comment:** That the comment is only true for continuous functions and may fail for RCLL functions.
*   **Non-dependence on the chosen sequence of partitions:** That for the definition of the quadratic variation of a Brownian motion the sequence of partitions does not matter.
*   **Extension to Martingales:** That the quadratic variation result can be extended to the case of a local martingale.
*   **Quadratic Variation of Local Martingales:** That the quadratic variation will be a random process and that convergence is not always almost sure, and that it is only true if the local martingale is also continuous.
*   **Sequence of Partitions for Quadratic Variation:** That the sequence of partitions must be fixed before the path realization.

  **4.3 Martingale Properties and Results**
*   **Martingale in Continuous Time:** The definition of martingales in continuous time, where the integrability condition is fundamental.
*  **Super and submartingales:** The definitions of super and submartingales with respect to the changes in the martingale definition inequality.
*  **Time index set**: That both the martingale and the filtration must have the same time set.
*   **Regular Trajectories of Martingales:**  The fact that continuous time martingales have right-continuous trajectories with left-limits (RCLL).
*  **Stopping Time Definition:** The same definition of a stopping time as in the discrete time case, with the difference that the time must be in [0, ∞].
*   **Standard Example of a Stopping Time:** A standard example where the first hitting time of an open set is a stopping time, and its application in Brownian motion.
*  **Use of Right Continuity:** How the property of right-continuity is needed to make sure that a hitting time is a valid stopping time.
* **Stopping time with Borel Sets:** That the first hitting time is still a valid stopping time even if the set B is allowed to be a Borel set, which is a surprisingly complicated proof.
*   **Stopping Theorem:** That the martingale property also holds for stopping times, and that the value at a stopping time is a random variable measurable with respect to its filtration.
*   **Stopped Process:** The definition of a new stochastic process based on a stopping time.
*  **Stopping Theorem:** That if M is an RC martingale and  τ is a stopping time, then a stopping theorem is valid for both bounded and uniformly integrable martingales.
*  **Two frequent applications of the stopping time:** That the stopped process and the expectation under a stopping time is still a martingale or constant, given a RC martingale.
*   **Local Martingale in Continuous Time:**  The equivalent definition of local martingales that requires a sequence of stopping times increasing to infinity, and that the stopped process is a martingale.
* **Stationary Increasing Stopping Times**: That a localizing sequence may also require that it stops stationarily if it has a finite time horizon.
*  **Proposition 2.3:** Several martingales that are closely related with the Brownian Motion and that can be calculated with its properties:
*   **Brownian motion is a martingale:** That Brownian motion is itself a martingale and a natural example of one.
*  **Squared Brownian Motion minus t as a Martingale:** That the Brownian Motion squared is a submartingale and its corrected version is also a martingale.
*  **Exponential of a Brownian Motion as a Martingale:** How to find the adequate exponential function that ensures that this process is also a martingale.
*   **Use of Normal Distribution Properties:** That the properties of a normal distribution allows for a fast calculation of the martingale property.
*   **Example of Non Applicability of the Stopping Theorem:**  That stopping theorem requires that either the stopping time is bounded or the process is uniformly integrable, and a direct example where the stopping time is unbounded and the martingale is not uniformly integrable.
*  **Laplace Transform:** The importance of calculating the Laplace transform, as it uniquely determines the distribution of a random variable.
* **Hitting Times:** How the theory of stopping times is essential for calculating hitting times of the Brownian Motion.
*  **Proposition 2.4:** The Laplace transforms of the hitting times at a level a and of the time to reach a + bt, calculated with all the martingale results up to this point.
* **Use of exponential processes:** That the specific exponential processes are used to calculate the hitting times of the Brownian motion, and their properties can be used in the proofs.
* **Dominated Convergence to use the stopping theorem:** How to bound the values of the stopped process, and use dominated convergence to obtain a formula for the expected value.

   **4.3 Markovian Properties**

* **Markov Property:** The property that given a specific time T, the Brownian Motion from that point onwards behaves independently of its past trajectory up to time T.
* **Restarting Brownian Motion:** The concept that if we take a Brownian motion at a certain time T, and we subtract W_T, we are left with a Brownian Motion that starts from 0 and which is independent of the past.
*   **Formal Definition of Markov Property:** The formulation that, given any fixed time T, the future of the Brownian Motion is conditionally independent of the past, given the present (WT).
*   **Markov Property as a Prediction Based Only on the Present:** The interpretation of Markov Property as that the best predictor of the future of the Brownian Motion only needs to know the present value.
*   **Markov Property as a Forgetfulness of the Past:** That the Brownian Motion forgets its past values at a certain fixed point in time, and restarts at that point.
*   **Strong Markov Property:** The observation that the Markov Property may hold not only for fixed times, but also for random stopping times, which is a highly non-trivial result.
*   **Formal Definition of Strong Markov Property:** The definition that the increments of BM after a stopping time are also a Brownian Motion and independent of its past.
* **Usefulness of the Strong Markov Property:** The statement that the strong markov property is essential and has a higher importance than the markov property in several applications.
